# BIOMD0000000335: Model_1

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000335.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000335.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
** A model for the stoichiometric regulation of blood coagulation. **   
Hockin MF, Jones KC, Everse SJ, Mann KG. _Journal of Biological
Chemistry_Volume 277, Issue 21, 24 May 2002, Pages 18322 -18333
[11893748](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11893748),  
**Abstract:**   
We have developed a model of the extrinsic blood coagulation system that
includes the stoichiometric anticoagulants. The model accounts for the
formation, expression, and propagation of the vitamin K-dependent procoagulant
complexes and extends our previous model by including: (a) the tissue factor
pathway inhibitor (TFPI)-mediated inactivation of tissue factor (TF).VIIa and
its product complexes; (b) the antithrombin-III (AT-III)-mediated inactivation
of IIa, mIIa, factor VIIa, factor IXa, and factor Xa; (c) the initial
activation of factor V and factor VIII by thrombin generated by factor Xa-
membrane; (d) factor VIIIa dissociation/activity loss; (e) the binding
competition and kinetic activation steps that exist between TF and factors VII
and VIIa; and (f) the activation of factor VII by IIa, factor Xa, and factor
IXa. These additions to our earlier model generate a model consisting of 34
differential equations with 42 rate constants that together describe the 27
independent equilibrium expressions, which describe the fates of 34 species.
Simulations are initiated by "exposing" picomolar concentrations of TF to an
electronic milieu consisting of factors II, IX, X, VII, VIIa, V, and VIIII,
and the anticoagulants TFPI and AT-III at concentrations found in normal
plasma or associated with coagulation pathology. The reaction followed in
terms of thrombin generation, proceeds through phases that can be
operationally defined as initiation, propagation, and termination. The
generation of thrombin displays a nonlinear dependence upon TF, AT-III, and
TFPI and the combination of these latter inhibitors displays kinetic
thresholds. At subthreshold TF, thrombin production/expression is suppressed
by the combination of TFPI and AT-III; for concentrations above the TF
threshold, the bolus of thrombin produced is quantitatively equivalent. A
comparison of the model with empirical laboratory data illustrates that most
experimentally observable parameters are captured, and the pathology that
results in enhanced or deficient thrombin generation is accurately described.


